feat: API (merkle, envio) and App (airstreams) updates (#130)
sablier-labs/v2-docs: docs/api/indexers/02-differences.mdx

---
id: "differences"
sidebar_position: 1
title: "Differences"
---

# Differences (The Graph vs. Envio)

:::note

If you're looking to support both subgraphs (The Graph) and indexers (Envio) into your apps, please make sure to scroll
down to the "Different Results" section to understand how results from both APIs may differ for the same entities.

:::

## General

> In contrast to The Graph, Envio offers a slightly different DX (Developer Experience) as far as indexer implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In contrast to The Graph, Envio offers a slightly different Developer Experience (DX) in terms of indexer implementation.
```

> While for consumers, the query specific don't change a lot, here are a few items to consider before developing on top of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While for consumers, the query specifics don't change a lot, here are a few items to consider before developing on top of
```

#### Notes

For the 3rd example, querying for a single item vs. a collection will have separate keywords for The Graph. With Envio,
you'll have to identify within the app itself if the query is supposed to yield one or multiple items.

For the 4th example, with Envio the name of an object will yield its `id`, while the `<name>Object` label will ask for
the object itself (e.g. `asset` vs `assetObject`).

### Handler Language

- The Graph: uses Assembly script
- Envio: we've chosen Typescript, but you can use JS, TS or Rescript

For Envio, one important mental model is in the concept of loaders vs. handlers. To optimize querying speeds, Envio will
ask you to write 2 methods: a `loader`, where you can express which existing entities you're expecting to use and
mutate, and a `handler` where you manage these entities and/or create new ones.

Example: In the case of a Withdraw event, we'll **pre-load** the `Stream` entity and maybe the `Watcher`, while in the
second part we'll **handle** the creation of a new `Action` of type Withdraw, we'll update the `Stream`'s
`withdrawnAmount` and increase the `Watcher`'s index.

> ## Specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Specifics
```
